https://variety.com/gallery/directors-on-directors-get-out-lady-bird/#!2/dunkirk-13

From Oscar-winners to emerging voices, Broadway maestros and animators, directors from Hollywood and beyond offer thoughts on the year’s hopefuls Directed by Christopher Nolan What Christopher Nolan achieves in “Dunkirk” feels like something he has been building toward his whole career.
It’s cinema as music — a continuous, breathless flow of images and sound that feels elemental and primal.
For such a giant motion picture, depicting such an epic event, it is simplicity itself.
Faces, bodies, land and sea and sky.
It reminded me of the lessons of silent cinema — when you strip away everything but the essentials, you can look at the real beating heart of a thing.
In this case, the “thing” is a battle that few people in America had ever heard of.
How could a movie called “Dunkirk,” in this day and age, draw so many people to movie theaters across the country?
It’s something of a miracle, a giant middle finger to all the claims that there’s no place for big risks on the big screen anymore.
This is a work of pure cinema, speaking the same language as the cut from flame to desert in “Lawrence of Arabia” or bone to spaceship in “2001.” It’s also remarkably specific.
It captures something that feels uniquely British — the exchanges near the end of the film for example, as the weary soldiers return, bottling up a tremendous reserve of feeling within just a few words.
There’s a real poetry in their stoicism; for all the bombs and shrieks of gunfire, this is a quiet film.
In that combination of scope and subtlety, the enormous canvas and the tiny, telling detail, it feels closer to the best work of David Lean than any recent movie I can recall.
More than that, it feels like Christopher Nolan.
This is a filmmaker who has managed, time and again, to make the most seemingly impersonal projects — superhero epics, deep-space mind-benders — feel deeply personal.
“Dunkirk” is, to me, his most personal — and most moving — work yet.
Chazelle won the 2016 directing Oscar for “La La Land.” He also directed “Whiplash” and “Guy and Madeline on a Park Bench.” Directed by Darren Aronofsky The first time I saw “Mother!” I just sat there with my mouth open.
I’ve seen the film three times now, and I didn’t fully appreciate the film until the second time.
And then on the third time, I understood it to be a masterwork.
On knee-jerk, you sit there and think, “what is this?” So I had to see it a second time to get it.
And the third time proved to me that he was that same filmmaker of “Black Swan,” of “Requiem for a Dream,” of “Pi.” He’s that same filmmaker who dared me to look at the truth — “I dare you,” is what he says.
People can say what they want about it, but you are dared to look at the truth.
What impressed me about “Mother!” was what impresses me about all of Darren’s films, which is his unflinching fearlessness, his storytelling, and his unabashedness in leading you somewhere to blow your mind.
The acting was extraordinary — once again he pulls extraordinary performances from his actors.
Michelle Pfeiffer’s performance when she talks about the lemonade is simply a tour de force, so breathtakingly honest.
And the build-up to the chaos at the end just left me sweating — I’ve never been more uncomfortable watching a film.
Even on the third time watching it, I’m still uncomfortable.
These are hard reactions to get from an audience.
Some people can look at it and judge it, but to provoke such a visceral reaction from someone, that’s filmmaking to me.
I think some people just can’t take it, it’s too much for the audience.
But that’s what makes him brilliant; the fact that he’s going to go there anyway.
This will be one of those films that audiences will come to appreciate 10 to 15 years from now — it’s just so shocking right now.
Aronofsky is one filmmaker I steal from constantly.
When I did “Precious,” I was stealing stuff from “Requiem” all the time.
I tell him that, too.
And when I tell him that he blushes.
But I don’t even know that I could steal anything from “Mother!” — it still has to sit with me for a second.
It is a masterwork, and another one of the jewels to add to his legacy.
Daniels was nominated for the 2009 directing Oscar for “Precious.” His other works include the films “The Paperboy” and “Lee Daniels’ The Butler,” and the TV series “Empire” and “Star.” Directed by Jordan Peele The earliest known depiction of horror is the cave paintings on an island in Indonesia, 40,000 years ago.
From then to the gothic tales of Edgar Allen Poe, Mary Shelley, Bram Stoker and Robert Louis Stevenson in the 19th century, to the earliest sound films of Universal in the 1930s, up to the present day, there are few works in this genre that have actually terrified me.
I can count them on the fingers of one hand.
I’m sure you have your own list, but “Get Out” is on mine.
For me, there are only three kinds of films — good, bad and occasionally great.
“Get Out” is made with the finely honed precision of a master.
It transcends genre, as do “Psycho,” “Alien” and “Rosemary’s Baby.” Most of us go to a movie to laugh, to be moved or to be scared.
We want an emotional response and some kind of satisfying closure.
“Get Out” delivers on all cylinders.
There’s not a wasted frame or moment.
And Peele’s eye for detail is unerring.
He does more with a teacup than Marcel Proust.
The film has a slowly mounting mood of suspense with accents of romance and humor that explode into a Grand Guignol climax.
It’s rare for a filmmaker to achieve a fine balance of comedy with so much evil.
A great film, of whatever genre, leaves you thinking about it long after you’ve left the theater.
At the center of “Get Out” is Peele’s skepticism about a post-racial society.
A young African-American man is surrounded by a group of hostile white people.
The psychology behind the images is personal, but no matter your race or gender, you’ll identify with the young man, Chris Washington.
Amazingly, this is Jordan Peele’s first film as both writer and director.
His earlier work as half of the comedy team of Key and Peele on Comedy Central and “Mad TV” in no way prepares you for the visceral experience of “Get Out.” Nor does his one previous film credit as co-writer and co-star of last year’s action-comedy, “Keanu.” As a young man, his dream was to become a horror filmmaker but his career path led him in a completely different direction.
His gift for improvisation no doubt plays a part in the pace and style of “Get Out.” The characters are recognizable in a plausible, disturbing, realistic way in what Peele describes as a “social thriller.” The title derives from a hilarious monologue by Eddie Murphy on films like “Poltergeist” and “The Amityville Horror” — “Why don’t white people just leave the house when there’s a ghost in the house?
I woulda been gone.
A ghost say ‘get the fuck out,’ I’d just tiptoe the fuck out the door.
Just get out!
Too bad we can’t stay, baby!” Now that he’s mastered the horror genre I suspect Jordan Peele will move on to other kinds of films.
But “not for the near future,” he says.
“I got a bunch of other horror stories I’d like to tell.” Friedkin won the 1971 directing Oscar for “The French Connection” and was nominated for 1973’s “The Exorcist.” His other films include “Sorcerer,” “Bug” and “Killer Joe.” Directed by Greta Gerwig To watch Greta Gerwig’s brilliant “Lady Bird” is to feel bathed in the warmth and easy comfort of the coming-of-age movies of the ’80s, the Crowe/Hughes gems that made high school seem a subject worthy of a Hollywood genre.
But what Gerwig is doing throughout the film, without announcing herself or forcing the issue, is quietly reinventing the genre — or actually, she’s stealing it for all the young women who, because they didn’t fit neatly into the category of fragile ingénue or quirky rebel, didn’t get to see themselves in those films.
Lady Bird herself seems to have seen some of these teen classics and makes the mistake of looking for fulfillment in teenage love, only to discover that she’d rather hang out with her best friend, Julie.
In one of my favorite scenes, Lady Bird tumbles into a popular girl’s bedroom to make out with a boy at a party, and exclaims “Julie would love this!” — and by “this” she doesn’t mean the sex; she’s referring to a tanning bed the popular girl was rumored to have and the existence of which she has just gleefully confirmed.
Later she’ll tell Julie that sex was disappointing and they’ll both laugh — not heartbroken, not wounded, not insecure, just two world-hungry young women accruing and assessing experiences together.
“Lady Bird” is also a film about religion and spirituality, a film about class, a film that gives us a defining portrait of Sacramento, and a film about the love between a mother and daughter as an ongoing, unresolved, sometimes brutal project.
But Gerwig accomplishes all of this with such a light touch you might not notice how radical her filmmaking is until well after the movie is over.
Gold won the 2015 Tony Award for his direction of “Fun Home.” His other Broadway directorial credits include “A Doll’s House Part 2,” “The Glass Menagerie,” “The Real Thing,” “Picnic” and “Seminar.” Directed by Richard Linklater  Linklater makes films you can touch.
He creates worlds that are lived in and they feature characters that are imperfect.
In the fall of 1993 I was 18 years old and living in Austin, Texas.
“Dazed and Confused” was released and I watched it with sold out crowds at the Dobie Theater more times than I’ve seen any film theatrically.
I’ve seen every one of his movies, and throughout his career, he has been an inspiration and conversation.
Inspiring in that his films accessibly tackle issues, absurdity and angst and they have their own influences as diverse as French New Wave, cosmic philosophy and American pop culture.
His stories examine characters through their dialogue with each other.
They are never afraid to take chances, never afraid to find detours or say what they feel.
We recognize ourselves in the organic structure of “Slacker,” the romantic nuances of “Before Sunrise” and the observational exploration of “Boyhood.” Watching “Last Flag Flying,” I couldn’t help but consider both the maturity and the immaturity of the three principal characters as they conflict with each other.
Sal, Doc and the Reverend have a history and the audience only gets glimpses, but the simplicity of words and often childlike camaraderie under serious situations is what lets us know that Linklater is behind the storytelling.
His films are my old friends.
As audiences study the naturalistic insights and awkward coming of age of each of these characters, we know we are being navigated by a voice we can trust.
Green’s films include “Stronger,” “Pineapple Express,” “George Washington” and “All the Real Girls.” Directed by Michael Showalter “The Big Sick” snuck up on me.
I think it snuck up on most people.
It was the movie we didn’t know we needed.
A rom-com movie centered around a coma — a rom-coma-com, if you will.
So full of heart, and smart, biting humor; “The Big Sick” added up to something so much more than I expected.
I felt a renewed sense of myself when I left the theater, and a desire to hug my loved ones close.
What more do we want from a film?
And that is in no small part due to Michael Showalter’s deft hand as a director.
Making a movie look easy is one of the hardest things to do.
It would be tempting to overlook the skill that goes into making a movie like “The Big Sick” because while watching it you feel as though you are simply observing people smack in the middle of a difficult life moment.
But there is a specificity and a nuance to every moment that proves you’re in the solid hands of a director who is guiding your way.
For his whole career, Michael has connected with the awkwardness and the complexity of people, in mostly hilarious and absurd ways.
He shines a light on true humanness, in all of its painful glory.
In this film, he narrows in on these characters and allows us as an audience to know them, more than we should know them.
How he does this, I can’t say.
It’s invisible storytelling.
There are no fancy tricks or a maudlin score.
There is just moment after moment of truth, being offered to you.
There is humor on top of pain, like in life.
There is love mixed up with selfishness, like in life.
And in the end you feel changed.
Heller’s directorial debut, “Diary of a Teenage Girl,” won the Independent Spirit award for first feature last year.
Directed by Guillermo del Toro Many years ago, Guillermo told me with his open, giant, sparkling eyes, about an idea that was circling around his head for his next film: The love story between a mute woman and a fish man.
That idea could not only occur to Guillermo del Toro, but also only an artist like himself would be capable of carrying it out.
And for that same reason, aside from getting really excited about his idea, I knew that it would be his best film.
Because there are films that, a little better or a little worse, any director can make.
But there are others that can only exist if they are created or directed by only one director in the world.
And this is one of those and the most personal among Guillermo del Toro’s work.
“I have always been, or felt like I am, that fish man, that different being outside the water,” Guillermo told me.
“Shape of Water” is a love letter to love.
And a love declaration for cinema.
And Guillermo changed the paradigm of the monster tale because no monster or princess has to change.
The only real transformation comes from within, by loving and accepting each other as they are.
A film that loves, without conditions, the marginalized, the rejects, those beings that are “different” and have no voice.
It has a perfect villain that embodies those ideologies from the past, but are so relevant, recycled, and even more dangerous today.
The fear of the otherness.
Blinded by fear and ignorance, he cannot see the others for what they really are, but loses control and reason with the idea they represent for him.
Water, omnipresent, opens and closes the film.
The aesthetic beauty and dramatic tension flow liquidly in every image and every scene; through the acting of each of the cast members, it emanates a profound and beautiful nobility, light, and darkness.
Like some of the literature from Haruki Murakami, Guillermo del Toro’s “Shape of Water” is a delight of fantasy and a miracle it exists in our reality.
Inarritu won back-to-back directing Oscars for “Birdman” and “The Revenant.” His earlier films include “Babel” and “Amores Perros.” Directed by Paul Thomas Anderson I look forward to a new Paul Thomas Anderson movie the same way I look forward to a new album by a favorite band — I know its images and rhythms and moments are going to take up residence in my head, and long after I leave the theater it’ll be a living thing I converse with and filter the world through.
That’s a damn rare thing for any film, and “Phantom Thread” is among Paul’s damnedest and rarest.
It has a lush and delicately engaged vigor that evokes David Lean’s romances, though it is always beguilingly idiosyncratic and entirely its own beast.
The performances are densely layered wonders and the visual design is exquisite, but the real magic of it is how the thing as a whole transcends technique.
Maybe that’s why I come back to the musical analogy — I can string together fancy sounding adjectives until the cows come home, but the truth is I don’t know how great music does what it does, and I don’t know how Paul’s movies do that voodoo that they do.
I just know that we’re always lucky to get a new one, and that this one in particular is something very, very special.
Rian Johnson is the director of the upcoming “Star Wars: The Last Jedi.” His previous films include “Looper” and “Brick.” Directed by Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris To me, Dayton and Faris’ films are always about the vulnerabilities of love, both familial and romantic, the vulnerabilities of trying to understand who you really are, and the risks of trying to be your real self in the world.
Their films are about making a space for those who don’t fit in, and the parts of ourselves we would often rather reject.
The emotional worlds they create are not overwrought, or overly dramatic — to me, they’re in the tradition of Californian humanists like Hal Ashby, and Paul Mazursky’s work in the ‘70s — they make films about people we might know, acting in ways we can relate to, and they bravely say that’s enough for a great film.
“Battle of the Sexes” deals with bigger figures, a more overtly politicized world of gender, sexuality and power, but the imperfect messy individuals are foregrounded, and Jon and Val’s direction gives these characters cinematic space.
Their camera finds them lost in moments that can’t be described or reduced to a plot point, their filmmaking honors the characters and events with ambiguity!
Their lens shows us how the political is personal.
Their visual filmmaking doesn’t point to itself, is not larger than life, because that would be missing the point entirely.
Their framing, shot selection, how they use light and lenses and film even, how they cast, how they edit.
How they use music is quietly rigorous, elegant without being fussy, naturalist but also always playful and beautiful without being false.
Their film language doesn’t jump in front of the characters, but is deeply considered and integrated into the story at hand, and it reflects their many years of directing together, talking about and loving films together.
Mills’ directorial works include “20th Century Women,” “Beginners” and “Thumbsucker.” Directed by Kathryn Bigelow One of the movies that struck me most in my youth was “The Chase” by Arthur Penn.
I remember leaving the theater with a sense of rage and revolt against racism, brutality and injustice, which has never altered since.
It equipped us with a moral and political conscience.
“Detroit” follows in the footsteps of “The Chase.” It left us with the feeling of having been beaten and locked up with these young men and women.
We’ve been morally, as much as physically, tortured together with them.
We clenched our fists in rage and fear and we suffer with them.
We experience the world’s injustice, straight to the end and without pause or relief.
Bigelow’s directing craft is strikingly effective because it triggers in us this feeling of revolt.
She achieves that effective quality through filming, editing, and her choice of dramatic devices.
But such efficiency would be a pointless performance were it not magnified by Bigelow’s vivid sense of characters, which relies on an unrelenting attention to human nature.
Be they good or bad, all characters must exist or else the story won’t.
And it’s again a matter of how you direct your film and actors.
You need to come up with a myriad of ideas, you need to fashion the little details of behaviors and to be able to film them in the heat of action.
You need to know how to talk to actors.
And the mastery of such complex alchemy lends human substance to the extreme tension of the story.
This sense of humanity strongly matters in Kathryn Bigelow’s oeuvre, and this is what makes “Detroit” and her previous film “Zero Dark Thirty” such great works.
These films are both a lesson and a landmark for me.
Rochant won France’s 1989 Cesar Award for his first feature, “Love Without Pity.” His other films include “Mobius,” “The Patriots” and “L’Ecole pour tous.” Directed by Matt Reeves It starts deep in the forest.
We are dropped in the middle of a military ambush as government soldiers creep silently towards their target.
The tone is ominous.
The intention to kill permeates every angle and action of the scene.
This is war, an ugly ground war, with the stink of moral ambiguity.
Then we are struck by the most surprising of details — this platoon of assassins is being guided by the very species they hunt … they are guided by apes.
This is the moment you realize a layer of mature complexity is imbedded within the story being told to you, and that recognition gives you the faith to surrender … and believe.
You believe everything put before you: That apes are civilized; that they are physically interacting with humans, each other, their environments; and you will come to believe they have more humanity than man, that the torch of “the struggle” that man carries has been handed off to another species.
Technology did not achieve this.
Technology is a tool.
Technicians, actors, animators, writers, camera crews, special fx teams, are all living, breathing people who must be led by a visionary in one intended direction to achieve such a feat.
Matt Reeves is that visionary.
And where his mastery of cinema achieves profound greatness, beyond the biblical vistas and groundbreaking effects — is in the small.
The in-between moments.
The “stuff.” The silent exchange of feelings and thoughts, conveyed simply and organically, between characters, ape or human.
These are deep and meaningful relationships we’re witnessing.
A steadfast confidence in storytelling holds up every frame of this film, and the result is you exit the theater saying to yourself, “It really happened … I was there … these characters exist …,” all because director Matt Reeves made you believe.
Thank you, sir.
Stanton has won two Oscars for animated feature for “Wall-E” and “Finding Nemo.” His other films as a director include “Finding Dory,” “A Bug’s Life” and “John Carter.” Directed by Angelina Jolie A director’s ability to create a completely immersive piece of cinema is something that’s easily taken for granted.
We the audience, don’t even have a sense of how far we’ve journeyed inside the protagonist’s world, if the director does their job well.
The capacity to create such an experience is not a skill that calls attention to itself, but Angelina Jolie has achieved this with “First They Killed My Father.” From the meticulous recreation of the Cambodia of late ’70s, to the low angle steady-cam evoking a child’s point of view, we are absorbed into 5-year-old Loung’s experience, going from bystander to participant and navigating our way through the war-torn landscape.
Jolie is our compass, yet we are dimly aware of such an object, pressing into our hand.
Calling attention to the cheapness of life one minute, the preciousness of life the next, Jolie senses when the audience might become emotionally fatigued by the horrors of the Khmer Rouge and she changes pace; showing a detail, a memory, a sound; a reminder that we are not alone in this world.
It becomes like a pulse, coursing through the film, encouraging us to breathe before we become aware that we have held our breath.
Her use of sound design, weaving in and out of the atmospheric score, is never manipulative because it doesn’t need to be.
I can only imagine the extraordinary patience involved in recreating the landscape of Cambodia of the time, the cycle of rice growth and harvest, the difficulty in shooting a film where the location’s humidity affects the equipment.
Jolie is both an “actor’s director” and a “cinematographer’s director.” In the resulting balance, one does not sense someone who calls attention to her method, instead one who masterfully calls attention to her subject.
Twomey co-directed “The Secret of Kells,” which received a 2009 Oscar nomination for best animated feature.
Her most recent film as a director is “The Breadwinner.” Directed by Craig Gillespie In these delicate, indignant days, taking a tragic joyride with bad girl Tonya Harding gave me an unexpected, much-needed release.
Here’s a heroine I can relate to — with all the colors of humanity — ridiculous but sympathetic, self-pitying but unsinkable, both a victim and a predator.
An inelegant scrapper in the pageant-minded world of figure skating, Tanya had no real shot at Olympic gold — even if she’d landed her triple-axels blindfolded.
Her desperation and resentment were palpable — so when her rival, the prettier, more graceful Nancy Kerrigan, got clubbed in the knee — all eyes turned quickly to Tonya.
Whether she was a conspirator in the assault or guilty only of running around with trashy, violent dudes was ultimately irrelevant; Harding was exposed as unladylike, a crusty striver and a poor sport.
With righteous glee, the skating world, the media and the public forced her to crawl back under the rock from where she came.
There are so many ways a biopic on Tonya could go painfully wrong.
But in Craig Gillespie’s merciless, yet judgment-free interpretation — guiding Margot Robbie’s inspired performance — we are allowed to feel every which way about Harding, and it gives the despised, ridiculed skater the complex, hilarious and moving tribute she deserves.
What I loved most about the movie is that Craig’s direction seems modeled on Harding’s eye-popping, herky-jerky routines.
The pace is lightning fast, propelled by a perfect, period soundtrack and full of impressive cinematic acrobatics executed effortlessly.
It captures all of Tonya’s emotional leaps and falls in fearless kabuki-on-ice style, embracing the artificiality of the enterprise, but sticks the landing with an authenticity that resonates and stays with you.
It’s a bravura, high-wire act of tonal and technical precision — and my favorite movie of the year.
It’s a masterpiece.
White’s feature directorial debut, “Brad’s Status,” was released earlier this year.
He also directed the TV series “Enlightened,” and his screenwriting credits include the films “Chuck and Buck,” “School of Rock” and “Beatriz at Dinner.” Directed by Joe Wright I would love to talk to you about a movie that is special to me: a diverting film from Working Title, produced by Eric Fellner & Tim Bevan, starring Lily James and directed by a tousled haired Brit named Wright.
Well, as I said, I’d like to talk to you about it, but modesty precludes me from banging on about my own “Baby Driver.” So instead let’s discuss “Darkest Hour,” a new Working Title, Tim & Eric joint, starring Lily James and directed by one Joe Wright.
Even though Joe and I are unrelated, I, too, lived in his stomping ground of Islington, North London, for 20 years, also got my break in British TV and began working for Tim & Eric around the same time.
But while we have made very different movies, I have long admired Joe’s remarkable rise and sense of narrative adventure.
He tackles both classics and new screenplays with a vigor often missing in our industry.
He’s always curious and always reaching, never resting on his laurels, nor licking his wounds over disappointments for very long.
In the last year we bonded over professional disappointments and rebounded with new movies.
Joe’s rousing return to the big screen, “Darkest Hour” is about an icon most see as an indomitable bulldog who is really an underdog wracked with self-doubt.
I hesitate to say that this comeback mirrors Churchill himself, as Joe has a full head of hair and a comparatively trim waist.
But what Joe does with “Darkest Hour” is make a big screen experience that could be a chamber piece in other hands.
He creates room for great actors (and not just a formidable Gary Oldman) to do sterling work and gives this historical chapter a style and form that befits both the past and the present.
Let me doff my Homburg to my non-brother Joe and cheer this triumph.
I would smoke a cigar, too, but I can’t pull it off like Winston.
Not many can.
Wright’s directorial credits include this year’s “Baby Driver,” “Shaun of the Dead,” “Hot Fuzz,” “The  World’s End” and “Scott Pilgrim vs. the World.” Directed by Luca Guadagnino Luca Guadagnino’s films revel in sensuality.
I know I am not the first to say this, or to use that term to describe his work, but what word could be better?
I might scroll through the thesaurus, looking for synonyms, but what’s the point when they all apply?
Stirring, carnal, tactile – each of these function in turn, although none suggest the marvelous manner in which Luca evokes them, or what he finds between them.
I remember watching “I Am Love” for the first time and being overwhelmed by the opening overture.
The cuts from one shot to the next were so, so confident, so proclamatory, so lusty and resplendent – and that’s to say nothing of the images they cut between!
I was enraptured with Luca’s sense of form (and inspired to later learn he’d shot that entire sequence himself).
It carried me through that film’s Hitchcockian splendor, into the violent swoon of “A Bigger Splash,” and left me altogether unprepared for the elegant simplicity of this year’s “Call Me by Your Name,” which is surely his best film yet.
His formalism here is quieter, the syntax sparser, the vocabulary more refined and tender.
But still, at the heart of it all (and there is so much heart here that yours might break) is that one word.
Of course there are other words, too.
Run through them all and they begin to lose their meaning, just as a name said over and over again loses its sense of purpose.
This is exactly what Elio (Timothee Chalamet) and Oliver (Armie Hammer) do in “Call Me by Your Name.” We hear it happen right in front of us: Elio, uttered enough times, ceases to be a name, loses its nameness, melts into a sound: delicate and musical and – yes – you know the word I’m thinking of.
Those sounds, together with the spokes of a bicycle, the crack of an egg, the lap of a lake, the song on the radio during a summer tryst and the banging of a screen door in the morning delineate the romance of “Call Me by Your Name.” It is a love story that sneaks up on you, just like the seasons do, just as growing-up does.
It does not declare itself; it waits until it no longer needs to, until not a single word is necessary… …except maybe one.
Lowery’s films as a director include this year’s “A Ghost Story,” “Pete’s Dragon,” and “Ain’t Them Bodies Saints.” Directed by Denis Villeneuve It was not easy to find a director who dared to continue the legacy of such an intangible film as “Blade Runner.” Thirty-five years after its release, Ridley Scott’s film is one of the biggest fundamental titles in the history of cinema.
It is a piece that created a “before and after” in the world of science fiction and continues as a major influence in the arts and the philosophy of our time.
It is fascinating to see how Denis Villeneuve surprisingly shows no fear in the face of such a powerful challenge.
He succeeds in keeping the legacy alive despite the weight of its predecessor.
He manages to breathe life into a new and unique creature while allowing it to retain its soul in the process.
“Blade Runner 2049” owes as much to Scott’s original film as to Villeneuve’s own vision.
In “Blade Runner 2049” we encounter all the features that make Villeneuve one of the most important auteurs in contemporary cinema.
On one hand, the futuristic world invites the filmmaker to unleash his incredible gift for crafting a difficult story into powerful images loaded with meaning and iconic values.
On the other hand, the philosophical jungle which unfolds in author Philip K. Dick’s original story allows Villeneuve to demonstrate his facility to conjure mystery and induce the viewer into asking the most transcendental questions.
Villeneuve recreates a unique universe, expands it with his own ideas and his own sensibility, and completely renovates it into something new.
He brings themes from the original “Blade Runner” closer to the present by demonstrating how its ideas are now more important and exciting than ever before.
With “Blader Runner 2049,” Villeneuve has filmed a dream, a perfect artifact bursting with emotions; exuberant with wisdom, respect, and love.
Bayona has won two Goya Awards for directing, for “The Impossible” and “A Monster Calls.” His other films include “The Orphanage” and the upcoming “Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom.”
