https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/news/box-office-milestone-dark-knight-rises-warner-bros-christopher-nolan-christian-bale-367476

Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Warner Bros.' superhero pic becomes only the 13th pic in history to hit that number.
By  Pamela McClintock  Senior Film Writer Dark Knight Rises Alfred with Bruce Wayne Still - H 2012 Christopher Nolan‘s The Dark Knight Rises is a billion dollar baby.
From Warner Bros. and Legendary Pictures, the superhero tentpole has now grossed $431.2 million domestically and an estimated $574 million internationally for a total $1.005 billion through Sunday.
That’s slightly ahead of The Dark Knight, which topped out at $1.003 billion worldwide in 2008.
VIDEO: ‘Dark Knight Rises’: Joseph Gordon-Levitt on the End of the Batman Saga The big difference — Dark Knight Rises has done more business overseas, and less domestically, than Dark Knight, which grossed $533 million in North America and $469.7 million internationally.
Many believe that Dark Knight Rises has left some money on the table in the U.S. because of the Aurora theater shootings during a midnight screening of the film on July 20.
Nevertheless, the movie is enormously successful and becomes only the 13th film in history to reach $1 billion, two of which (James Cameron‘s Titanic and Avatar) have surpassed $2 billion.
Related Stories               Related Story       'Dark Knight Rises' Shooting Victims' Families Plan News Conference              Related Stories               Related Story       Box Office Report: 'Amazing Spider-Man' Beats 'Dark Knight Rises' in China              Related Stories               Related Story       Box Office Milestone: 'The Avengers' Hits $1.5 Billion Worldwide              Related Stories               Related Story       Box Office Report: 'Possession' Overperforms, Eyes $21.3 Mil Labor Day Debut         Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Send us a tip using our anonymous form.
