https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/batman_begins/









Movies in theaters
Movies at home
More
Certified fresh picks

              New TV Tonight
            

              Most Popular TV on RT
            
More

              Certified fresh pick
            
Columns
Guides
All A24 Movies Ranked by Tomatometer
Best Women-Directed Movies of the 21st Century
Hubs
Women’s History
Black Heritage
RT News
10 Essential Movies About Women in Sports
Godzilla X Kong: The New Empire: Release Date, Trailer, Cast & More
2005, Action/Fantasy, 2h 20m


Critics Consensus


Brooding and dark, but also exciting and smart, Batman Begins is a film that understands the essence of one of the definitive superheroes.
Read critic reviews

Watch Batman Begins with a subscription on Hulu, Peacock, Max, rent on Amazon Prime Video, Vudu, Apple TV, or buy on Amazon Prime Video, Vudu, Apple TV. 
Verified


Verified

Super Reviewer
Rate this movie
Oof, that was Rotten.
Meh, it passed the time.
It’s good – I’d recommend it.
Awesome!
So Fresh: Absolute Must See!
You're almost there! Just confirm how you got your ticket.

Super Reviewer
Step 2 of 2
Fandango
                                    
                                
AMCTheatres.com or AMC AppNew

Cinemark
                                    
                                        Coming Soon

We won’t be able to verify your ticket today, but it’s great to know for the future.
Regal
                              
                                  Coming Soon

We won’t be able to verify your ticket today, but it’s great to know for the future.
Theater box office or somewhere else
                              
                          
By opting to have your ticket verified for this movie, you are allowing us to check the email address associated with your Rotten Tomatoes account against an email address associated with a Fandango ticket purchase for the same movie.



Super Reviewer
Rate this movie
Oof, that was Rotten.
Meh, it passed the time.
It’s good – I’d recommend it.
Awesome!
So Fresh: Absolute Must See!
Fandango
                          
                      
AMCTheatres.com or AMC AppNew

Cinemark
                          
                              Coming Soon

We won’t be able to verify your ticket today, but it’s great to know for the future.
Regal
                          
                              Coming Soon

We won’t be able to verify your ticket today, but it’s great to know for the future.
Theater box office or somewhere else
                          
                      
By opting to have your ticket verified for this movie, you are allowing us to check the email address associated with your Rotten Tomatoes account against an email address associated with a Fandango ticket purchase for the same movie.
You can always edit your review after.
Verified reviews are considered more trustworthy by fellow moviegoers.
They won't be able to see your review if you only submit your rating.
They won't be able to see your review if you only submit your rating.


                The image is an example of a ticket confirmation email that AMC sent you when you purchased your ticket. Your Ticket Confirmation # is located under the header in your email that reads "Your Ticket Reservation Details". Just below that it reads "Ticket Confirmation#:" followed by a 10-digit number. This 10-digit number is your confirmation number.
            

                Your AMC Ticket Confirmation# can be found in your order confirmation email.
            

                    A young Bruce Wayne (Christian Bale) travels to the Far East, where he's trained in the martial arts by Henri Ducard (Liam Neeson), a member of the mysterious League of Shadows. When Ducard reveals the League's true purpose -- the complete destruction of Gotham City -- Wayne returns to Gotham intent on cleaning up the city without resorting to murder. With the help of Alfred (Michael Caine), his loyal butler, and Lucius Fox (Morgan Freeman), a tech expert at Wayne Enterprises, Batman is born.
                

Rating:
PG-13 (Intense Action Violence|Disturbing Images|Some Thematic Elements)
                        


Genre:

                            
                            Action, 
                            
                            Fantasy, 
                            
                            Adventure
                            
                        


Original Language:
English


Director:

Christopher Nolan



Producer:

Larry J. Franco, 
                                
                            
                                
                                    Charles Roven, 
                                
                            
                                
                                    Emma Thomas



Writer:

David S. Goyer, 
                                
                            
                                
                                    Christopher Nolan, 
                                
                            
                                
                                    Bob Kane



Release Date (Theaters):

Jun 15, 2005
 wide



Release Date (Streaming):


                                Sep 9, 2009
                            



Box Office (Gross USA):
$206.9M


Runtime:


                                2h 20m
                            



Distributor:

                            
                            Warner Bros. Pictures
                            
                        


Production Co:

                            
                            Warner Brothers, 
                            
                            Di Bonaventura Pictures
                            
                        


Sound Mix:

                            SDDS, DTS, Surround, Dolby SRD
                        


Aspect Ratio:

                            Scope (2.35:1)
                        


View the collection:

Batman


Christian Bale

            
                
                    Bruce Wayne, 
                
                    Batman
                
            
            
                
                    
                
            
        
Michael Caine

            
                
                    Alfred Pennyworth
                
            
            
                
                    
                
            
        
Liam Neeson

            
                
                    Henri Ducard
                
            
            
                
                    
                
            
        
Katie Holmes

            
                
                    Rachel Dawes
                
            
            
                
                    
                
            
        
Gary Oldman

            
                
                    Lt. James Gordon
                
            
            
                
                    
                
            
        
Cillian Murphy

            
                
                    Dr. Jonathan Crane, 
                
                    The Scarecrow
                
            
            
                
                    
                
            
        
Tom Wilkinson

            
                
                    Carmine Falcone
                
            
            
                
                    
                
            
        
Rutger Hauer

            
                
                    Earle
                
            
            
                
                    
                
            
        
Ken Watanabe

            
                
                    Ra's Al Ghul
                
            
            
                
                    
                
            
        
Mark Boone Junior

            
                
                    Flass
                
            
            
                
                    
                
            
        
Linus Roache

            
                
                    Thomas Wayne
                
            
            
                
                    
                
            
        
Morgan Freeman

            
                
                    Lucius Fox
                
            
            
                
                    
                
            
        
Gus Lewis

            
                
                    Bruce Wayne - age 8
                
            
            
                
                    
                
            
        
Sara Stewart

            
                
                    Martha Wayne
                
            
            
                
                    
                
            
        
Christopher Nolan

            
            
                
                    
                        Director
                    
                
            
        
David S. Goyer

            
            
                
                    
                        Writer
                    
                
            
        
Christopher Nolan

            
            
                
                    
                        Writer
                    
                
            
        
Bob Kane

            
            
                
                    
                        Writer
                    
                
            
        
Michael E. Uslan

            
            
                
                    
                        Executive Producer
                    
                
            
        
Benjamin Melniker

            
            
                
                    
                        Executive Producer
                    
                
            
        
Larry J. Franco

            
            
                
                    
                        Producer
                    
                
            
        
Charles Roven

            
            
                
                    
                        Producer
                    
                
            
        
Emma Thomas

            
            
                
                    
                        Producer
                    
                
            
        
David Julyan

            
            
                
                    
                        Original Music
                    
                
            
        
Wally Pfister

            
            
                
                    
                        Cinematographer
                    
                
            
        
John Papsidera

            
            
                
                    
                        Casting
                    
                
            
        
Lucinda Syson

            
            
                
                    
                        Casting
                    
                
            
        

                            The Best Superhero Movie of Each Year Since 1998
                        

                            Batman Vs. Iron Man: Who’s the Ultimate Billionaire, Playboy, Superhero?
                        

                            New on Netflix in September 2019: New Movies, TV Shows, Netflix Original Series
                        
Arguably one of the best starts to a trilogy since The Matrix. Excellent story and script. Really happy they decided to go with someone other than Batman's biggest foe in the first film. Nearly perfect rebooted origin story. Genius move to set the story in as real and as grounded of a setting as possible. Really saved this franchise from the merciless fisting Joel Schumacher gave to it.
After 1997's 'Batman & Robin', it seemed that there was no future for Batman in cinema.  Christopher Nolan took a dead franchise and managed to reignite the flame with this greatly cinematic and entertaining superhero film.
We waited for years to get a new and better "Batman" movie than the one we got back in 1997 with "Batman & Robin" which was a complete disaster. This movie is probably the best of all the "Batman" movies to ever be released. Christopher Nolan reinvents this iconic character in the most humane way we have ever seen the character in before. It's also the greatest way we have ever seen. Christian Bale is a very good Batman, but I don't believe in his judgment all the time, taking a scene where he is about to kill a man, but fails when the same man is killed by another assassin. I didn't really get his full emotion in that scene, but he is still very good. Liam Neeson is the best villain for Batman to take on as he inhabits the iconic villain Ra's al Ghul who we all know from the comicbooks. This is a great movie that I can't help but love even more every single time I watch the movie.
Reinvigorating the Batman character is no easy task, but director Christopher Nolan succeeds on every count by giving us a layered, complex and engaging character piece on the dark knight himself, one that cements itself as both a great homage to the comics as well as a brilliant piece of filmmaking.
Play Daily Tomato Movie Trivia 
Awards Tour
Discover What to Watch
Rotten Tomatoes Podcasts
Join The Newsletter
Get the freshest reviews, news, and more delivered right to your inbox!
Follow Us
Copyright © Fandango. All rights reserved.